# Casile_et_al_2025
Python code used for data analyses in Casile et al. (2025), Neural Correlates of minimal recognizable configuration in the human brain; Cell Reports

To run the Python files you must:

•	uncompress the downloaded files MAINTAINING the existing directory tree

•	set, in the file utilities.py the variable base_dir to the root of the directory tree

• download the raw data from https://kreimanlab.com/code/mirc/


List of Python files

processBehavior.py
processes behavioral data and produces panels for Figure 1


process_IFPs_responsive_AND_selective_cond_1_vs_cond_2.py

This is the omnibus processing file. It does not directly generate any figure but it processes raw IFPs data to generate files containing a list of the responsive and selective electrodes. These files are then used by other Python files to perform further processing or to produce figures for the paper.
By appropriately setting the value of Boolean variables in this file one can run the analysis for the two contrasts (MIRC vs sub-MIRC and sub-MIRC post vs sub-MIRC) reported in the paper. In addition, one can run a shuffling analysis to obtain the null-hypothesis distribution of the number of responsive and selective electrodes.


analyze_and_plot_response_times_cond_1_vs_cond_2.py

computes the number of responsive and selective electrodes in the four brain regions (occipital, parietal, temporal and frontal) and plot their distributions by brain region. It takes as input files produced by process_IFPs_responsive_AND_selective_cond_1_vs_cond_2.py and it generates several panels and statistical analyses.


plot_results_shuffling_analysis.py

plots the results of the shuffling analyses shown in Figure S6. The to-be-plotted data are generated by the omnibus file process_IFPs_responsive_AND_selective_cond_1_vs_cond_2.py.
 

Data Description

Epoched data are saved in the files subjxx_all_channels.mat where xx is the subject number between 1 and 12 included.

These files contain two variables:

Total_Epoch_Data is a 3D matrix with dimensions # of channels x # number of trials x # number of times samples (each time sample is 1ms)

electrodes_names is a list of strings representing the unique channels’ identifiers


Electrodes’ locations are saved, for each subject, in the files subjxx_localization.xlsx in the directory electrode locations, where xx is the subject number (between 1 and 12 included).
Each file is an Excel spreadsheet reporting, in each row, the channels’ characteristics (channel number, area, brain lobe, brain position, etc.)


The sequence of trials is stored in the files subj1_behavior.xlsx in the directory behavior, where xx is the subject number (between 1 and 12 included).
Each file is an Excel spreadsheet reporting, in each row, the trial’s characteristics (session number, block number, trial number, condition, stimulus category, stimulus name, etc. ).
These files are processed by the processBehavior.py to generate processed files that are then used for our data analyses.

